evening as we continue our study here through this particular psalm and I love the book
of Psalms and there's so many just encouraging, I mean obviously all of the Bible is profitable
for us but you go to the Psalms and the transparency of the psalmist and the opportunity to be
encouraged and comforted and to be reminded and just repeated themes throughout the book
and it's just a real blessing to consider the truth that our God is worthy of our praise
and last Sunday evening in fact or Wednesday evening as we started into the psalm we addressed
the gift of music and the fact that God wants to hear us sing and I'm so thankful that God
has given to us the ability to lift our voices and to praise our God and as the Bible begins
here sing aloud unto God our strength and we spoke about the importance of the fact
that we're singing to God but also that we're to sing aloud.
We have someone and something to sing about and what a blessing to consider.
We referenced and then brother Mike Amaro referenced on Sunday evening as well there
Paul and Silas as they were in the jail and at midnight they were singing and praising
the Lord and they were praying and the Bible says that they were singing praises to God
and the prisoners heard them and so they were singing to God and they were singing aloud
because other people heard them and what a blessing to be able to sing.
Our songs are first and foremost to glorify God and then our music is to glorify God and
we understand that our music the songs that we sing not only to glorify God they should
minister to our hearts encourage us and strengthen us and God puts a song in your heart.
I was sharing with somebody last Wednesday evening after the service how every once in
a while God just puts a song in your heart maybe it's a different song just a few days
or maybe it's the same song kind of repeated and repeated and for probably six or eight
weeks now I was walking around singing part of that song bring them in.
Hark tis the shepherd's voice and I'm just singing it and just going and then we sang
it on Sunday and I guess we had not had the opportunity to sing it for a while because
since Sunday it's not been in my head anymore but it's just one of those things sometimes
God just gives you a song gives it maybe for a season for a particular reason but it encourages
ministers to our heart.
We understood as we looked at the book of Colossians our music is to teach us.
It's to teach us the great hymns of the faith they reinforce Bible truth and they remind
us of the truth of God's word and as we're singing the songs we have opportunity to think
about scripture verses that would have been impactful in the lives of those that were
writing those songs and what a blessing but then we also think about the impact that our
song will have around others or in the lives of others and how many of you ever have someone
pull up next to you and they're blaring their music and you wish they weren't?
Has it ever happened to you and you're like I'm not sure how you're sitting inside of
that vehicle and you're not going to be able to hear in a few years and you have all those
thoughts and so on and so forth and I'm not suggesting that we should blur our music in
that same fashion but the thing is that when God puts a song in your heart and you're singing
it and it's a biblical song it's a song that glorifies God it's a song that has some mention
of biblical truth in it then we'll have an opportunity to be able to impact others.
Think about this just for a moment Jesus is the sweetest name I know amen just think
about we get to sing about Jesus I mean we got a little video from Juliana this afternoon
with Nova singing in the backseat Jesus loves me this I know man just bless my heart little
two-year-old singing Jesus loves me listen it's still a precious song to me and it's
a precious song to us and the reality is that we get to sing about Jesus we get to
sing about redemption aren't you thankful to be saved saved how I love to proclaim it
I mean you think about being saved redeemed by the blood of the Lamb and what a joy to
sing about the one who died for us the one who lives for us the one that intercedes for
us the one who's coming back for us and we begin to think about all of these wonderful
truths in the ministry of music now this particular psalm as you're reminded through
the last couple of weeks of studying through psalm 81 that this psalm is associated with
the Feast of Tabernacles and thus the the remembrance of deliverance from Egypt is a
theme that we see within this particular psalm why because it's a psalm that's associated
with the Feast of Tabernacles and one of those main purposes of the Feast of Tabernacles
was to remind the people of God about their deliverance from Egyptian bondage and so I've
titled the message this evening we're just going to look at verses 4, 5, and 6 went out
of Egypt went out of Egypt so look at verse 4, 5, and 6 with me notice what the Bible
says for this was a statute for Israel in a law of the God of Jacob this he ordained
in Joseph for a testimony when he went out through the land of Egypt where I heard a
language that I understood not I removed his shoulder from the burden his hands were delivered
from the pots as we see in verses 4, 5, and 6 we find that God is giving truth again to
the nation of Israel through this psalm and he begins sing aloud unto God our strength
and that aspect as we look last week at Psalm 100 enter into his presence with thanksgiving
into his gates with singing and we understand that now as we get into verses 4, 5, and 6
again this reference if you will to this deliverance and I'm thankful that we have the this truth
of God's word with regard to the deliverance that God afforded his people from Egypt but
then understanding of course our deliverance from the world as well from the bondage of
sin they were in bonds in Egypt but we were in bonds to sin and we've been delivered and
praise God for that and as we look here at the text of scripture I want you to just consider
a couple of thoughts with me this evening number one remember his directive remember
his directive sometimes we speak about the directives of the Lord or the commandments
of the Lord sometimes we can think of those and have a wrong mindset there are people
that have said to me over the years well you know the Bible is just a book of all of
these rules of do's and don'ts and so on and so forth and I've constantly and consistently
said to people that have that perspective that they really have a faulty perspective
and they need to go to the Bible with a different approach and understand that God loves us
so much that God is giving us directives he's given us commandments he's given us instruction
that's good for us that we need not very many people are getting mad at the chemical
company that puts a warning label on the bottle of product that they're selling because it
could cause death no they say thank you for putting the label there that we know that
we can't you understand what I'm saying and so God who created us that knows all things
he's given us directives he's given us commandments he's given us instruction and it's for our
good and notice if you will in verse number four he uses the word statute he says for
this was a statute for Israel and a statute is a prescribed task so think about this in
verse one and two is we begin to think about and really verse three as we recap what we
dealt with last week sing aloud unto God our strength make a joyful noise unto the God
of Jacob take a psalm and bring hither the timbrel the pleasant harp with the psaltery
blow up the trumpet in the new moon in the time appointed on our solemn feast day for
this that what I just read in verse one three for this was a statute for Israel this was
a prescribed task several weeks ago when we started studying into Psalm 81 we really didn't
look at Psalm 81 at all on that introduction lesson why we went back to Leviticus and to
Exodus and we spoke about the feast of tabernacles what is it and if we're going to understand
the psalm it was helpful for us to have some lay some groundwork as to what is the feast
of tabernacles and so we did that and so we find that here in verse number four that the
author says for this was a statute for Israel of course we know that David is the human
penman and we look here excuse me Asaph is the penman for this psalm and he says that
this was a statute for Israel this prescribed task well who prescribed it God read the book
of Leviticus you read the book of Exodus you begin to understand the the truth that God gave
with regard to the feast of tabernacles and how they were to what they were to do it was a statute
for Israel but then he uses this phrase at the end of verse number four and a law of the God of
Jacob now the law is a permanent rule and it carries with it this idea it's a permanent rule
prescribed by the supreme power that's God now it's the the definition is that it's a supreme
power of a state to its subjects but we understand that this is God to his people and he is the
supreme being he is the creator and sustainer of all things and it's the purpose of the law
is to regulate their actions and so here in verse number four we find
that what God is saying to his people is that this was a statute, a prescribed task,
this was a law of the God of Jacob, this was a permanent rule that was prescribed
by God to his people to regulate their actions. There was something specific
that God wanted them to do. Can I tell you this? There was a specific way that
God wanted them to come. And we find that throughout the Old Testament we learn
valuable truth with regard to how we approach God. Man must approach God on
his terms, not their terms, and his being God. We must approach God on his terms.
I can't just come to God any old way that I want. You read about Cain and Abel,
you learn that very quickly, do you not, when you begin reading the book of
Genesis? If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted? Is that not what God
says? But if not, then sin lieth at the door. We find that there's a right way to
approach God, and then there's man's way that would be foreign to the Scriptures
that is not the acceptable way. They that worship him, God is a spirit. They
that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. And so we find that
God gives, and it's again a reminder to remember his directive, that it was a
statute, it was a law. In verse number five, notice what the Bible says,
this he ordained in Joseph for a testimony. When he went out through the
land of Egypt, where I heard a language that I understood not. Now consider with
me here in verse number five, this phrase when it says to begin the verse, this he
ordained in Joseph for a testimony. And I begin to look here in verse number
four, this directive, this statute, this law. But then in verse number five, when
he says this he ordained, that word ordained means to appoint something, to
institute something. And this he ordained in Joseph, notice what it says, for a
testimony, as a witness, as a declaration. And so we find that here in Psalm 81 in
verse number five, that God is revealing to his people through this psalm, the
psalm of Asaph, that there's a purpose for God's directive, and it's made known.
God says in verse number four of Psalm 81, this was a statute for Israel and a
law of the God of Jacob. This he ordained, he, it was God who appointed or
instituted this. This was not the idea of Moses. Moses wasn't sitting around with
Aaron and others and say, you know, I think we ought to have, no, that's not how
it happened. God ordained this, and notice it says in Joseph, for a testimony. Can I
tell you this evening that God has a purpose for everything. He has a purpose
for everything. And we begin to look here and we are reminded and we're saying
that we are to remember his directive and hear the the children of Israel as
you would look at this psalm. They're being reminded. Why are we doing this?
Well, because God ordained it. Because God instituted it. God appointed it. God
ordained this. Why? As a testimony, as a witness, or a declaration. Now, as we've
studied about the Feast of Tabernacles, we understand that it was partially to
remind the children of Israel about their deliverance from Egyptian bondage.
So when they would, and then God's provision for them as they were in the
wilderness, and so as they would have annually the opportunity to observe this
particular feast, it would be a reminder of God's directive that God instituted
this, that God ordained this, and we're following God's way. Not only remember
his directive, but number two, as you look at Psalm 81, I want you to consider
with me, remember his deliverance. Remember his deliverance. And so we see
the the directive that God says there's a statute, there's a law, that this was
something that he ordained in Joseph for a testimony, but then we remember his
deliverance. It says in verse number six, notice the the verbiage here, I removed
his shoulder from the burden. Were not the people of God burdened while they
were in Egypt? I mean they were crying out to God, were they not? Now we
understand after the deliverance there were times in which they cried out and
they complained and they said, would to God we were back in Egypt, how soon they
were to forget how bad it was in Egypt and how good it was that God had
delivered them. But we find that as we look here that God says I removed his
shoulder from the burden, so again we must acknowledge that it was God who did
it. Now we know, we can go back to the account in the book of Exodus and we can
read about the the Exodus and God's deliverance and we can understand with
great clarity that God did it. And we can understand that the children of Israel,
those that were there experiencing that first generation as they would go forth,
they were eyewitnesses of God's great power, they knew that God did it. Can I
encourage you this evening, they had to acknowledge that there was no other way
that they would have deliverance. It was only through God. They were
hopeless and helpless without God. Is that not true? I mean they were enslaved,
they were in bondage, they were burdened. And when Moses first comes and says to
Pharaoh, let my people go, that's what God said and they're gonna go and sacrifice
and we understand how things became progressively worse and all that was
taking place and Moses even comes to a point and says God since I first came
that it's just gotten worse for them. And God says just wait you're gonna see.
You're gonna see my hand, you're gonna see what I'm gonna do and how I'm going
to deliver. And so we find that here as the Psalm continues and we see that
God is the one that removed his shoulder from the burden, his hands were
delivered from the pots. And you know it's interesting because it was those
pots that sometimes they referenced back to in the moments of difficulty and
complaining, was it not? When they would talk about sitting around the pots and
having this and having that and God is reminding them that his hands were,
notice the word, delivered from the pots. And you know it's interesting because we
begin to look here and understand and we're reminded of not only God's
directive that they were to observe this feast of tabernacles, that it was a
statute in a law, that it was appointed by God to be a testimony or a witness to
them, that it would be in that same time that as they followed God's directive
they were at the very same time being reminded of God's deliverance. Isn't that
pretty awesome? So think with me this evening that as they were observing the
feast of tabernacles, as they were going through the process of following the
directive, the statute and the law that God prescribed, that as they were doing
that properly they were at the very same time remembering God's deliverance. See
why is that important? Because God's directives, God's commandments always
have a purpose and they're always designed for us as the people of God to
recognize the glory of God and to recognize what he has done and it brings
us to that place of praise. Remember when you think about the feast of tabernacles
there was praise that was going on and yes they were thinking about the harvest
and all of those things that were going on but the reality is that this was a
time of great jubilee for the children of Israel. Begin to think about us as New
Testament believers. Obviously as we look here at the text of Scripture and we
find that this is referring to the feast of tabernacles. It's a statute for Israel.
It says specifically in verse number four, a law of the God of Jacob. Jacob of
course would be Israel and so we understand that as a local church we're
not observing the feast of tabernacles. We can learn from it but then we begin
to think about some of the the directives that God has given to us as
a local church. As you go into the New Testament you begin to think about the
church and you think about the the instructions that God has given to us.
It's interesting the verbiage in verse number five when it says this he ordained.
We're going to think about this appointment or that he appointed or
instituted something. It was a witness or a declaration, a testimony and I think
about the ordinances for the local church. Is it not God that ordained
baptism and the Lord's Supper? It was not just some creation of some religion or
some religious group of people. It was the Lord Jesus Christ who gives to the
local church these two ordinances and we speak about in fact on Sunday evening
we're going to observe the Lord's Supper and you begin to consider with me and
understand the importance of the Lord's Supper and as we go over to
1st Corinthians 11 I'm gonna touch on this a little bit on Sunday evening but
let me just remind you in 1st Corinthians chapter number 11 when we
read about the Lord's Supper and I'm not gonna get into all of it this evening I
just want to draw a parallel application for us tonight as we look at what God is
saying to the children of Israel through this psalm.
and this reminder of the Feast of Tabernacles,
but then understanding that God's given us some directives.
And when he's given us some directives,
some instruction for us as a local church,
it's designed to remind us of the deliverance,
the redemption that we have through Christ.
Notice, if you will, in verse number 23
of 1 Corinthians 11, Paul says this
to the church in Corinth,
"'For I have received of the Lord
"'that which also I delivered unto you,
"'that the Lord Jesus, the same night
"'in which he was betrayed, took bread.
"'And when he had given thanks, he break it and said.'"
So Jesus is giving the instruction.
Paul is saying, as he mentions in verse 23,
"'I have received of the Lord
"'that which also I delivered unto you.'"
And so the Apostle Paul is saying,
listen, I'm not just giving you my idea.
I'm not just giving you my instruction for the Lord's Supper.
No, I've received of the Lord,
and now I'm delivering it to you.
And he then references about the night
that Jesus was betrayed and that he said,
"'Take eat, this is my body, which is broken for you.
"'This do what?
"'In remembrance of me.'"
It's on the front of our Lord's Supper table.
You see it each time you come in to the sanctuary.
And then he mentions in verse 25,
"'After the same manner also, he took the cup
"'when he had supped, saying,
"'This cup is the New Testament in my blood.
"'This do ye as often as you drink it
"'in remembrance of me.'"
Now, pause with me just for a moment.
We see what's happening in Psalm 81
with the Feast of Tabernacles,
and we understand the directive
and we're to be the children of Israel,
they're to remember his, God's directive,
they're to remember his, God's deliverance.
But then as we come to 1 Corinthians 11,
we find that God has given us directive.
He's given to us instruction, a command.
He says in verse 26,
"'For as often as ye eat this bread and drink this cup,'
God does not give us a specific prescribed time
for how often we observe the Lord's Supper.
He just simply says for as oft as you do.
Now, for the children of Israel,
when you look at the Feast of Tabernacles,
there was a prescribed time of the year
for a particular duration of time
that they were to observe the Feast of Tabernacles.
I'm not in any way, shape or form
trying to say that the Lord's Supper
is the replacement of the Feast of Tabernacles.
I'm simply saying tonight
that as we look at the Old Testament truth,
that we find that God has given to us
some of the same types of things that he gave to Israel.
And he gave these things to Israel, why?
Because humans are prone to forget.
It's not that they forgot that they came out of Egypt.
It's not that that first generation forgot,
or even generations down the road
would have forgotten about their deliverance,
but it doesn't maybe matter as much.
It's just not on the forefront of their memory,
and it's not something that really impacts them.
And so we find that the Lord Jesus Christ,
it's interesting, you don't need to turn there,
but we find that as we consider the Lord's Supper,
and obviously the truth of baptism as well,
that we have the opportunity to be able to be reminded
of what the Lord has done for us.
And it's interesting because in 2 Peter,
the Bible says in chapter one in verse number eight,
for if these things be in you and abound,
they make you that you shall neither be barren
nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.
But he that lacketh these things is blind
and cannot see afar off,
and hath forgotten that he was purged from his old sins.
Now, is it that he forgot,
like he didn't know he was saved anymore?
No, that's not really the idea of it.
It's just not that we're every day walking in the fact
that man, I am redeemed by the grace of God.
I am heaven bound because of what Jesus did for me,
and it's not at the forefront of our minds.
And so God gave to us the Lord's Supper,
and we find that he told us that as often
as we eat this bread and drink this cup,
what do we do?
You do show the Lord's death till he come.
And so we find that the gospel is clearly given to us
with regard to observing the Lord's Supper
and understanding the fact that he,
the Lord Jesus Christ, God in flesh,
the just for the unjust, he's perfectly righteous,
but his body was broken for us,
that his precious blood was shed for us.
There's nothing about the elements of the Lord's Supper
that could ever save a person,
but they certainly remind the saved person
of what it cost for us to be saved.
Amen.
Often as we think about the latter chapters
of the gospel records, in fact, I think,
and I mentioned this several years ago,
anytime you feel like you're kind of getting
in a maybe a spiritual rut,
you kind of feel like it's just kind of,
things aren't going so well,
just read the last couple of chapters
of each of the gospels,
because you'll be reminded of what Jesus did for you,
how much he loves you.
He went to that cruel cross and he suffered
and he bled and he died.
Horrific death, why?
So that we could be saved.
You'll read how he was buried.
You'll read how he rose again and how he gave command.
I mean, those chapters at the end of each of the gospels,
they will cause you to be stirred up.
I mean, they'll bring that level of revival
that we need as believers.
And we find this evening
that when we observe the Lord's Supper,
listen, it's not just a spiritual thing.
It's not a religious,
I shouldn't use the word spiritual thing.
It's not a rote religion.
It's not just a, oh, it's time to observe the Lord's Supper
and let's pass around a little long tonight
and we gotta do the Lord's Supper,
like we gotta get through this.
No, like we are being reminded of what Jesus Christ,
God in flesh, did for us on the cross of Calvary.
And it's not something that should become mundane to us.
It's not just a mindless exercise,
a dead orthodoxy type of a task and an approach.
No, we're being reminded of what cost our Savior
so that we could be redeemed.
When I observe the Lord's Supper,
I'm reminded that I'm saved
because I accepted the Lord Jesus Christ
as my personal Savior.
The elements, again, they can't save you.
We understand that.
We teach it plainly.
That he says, this do in remembrance of me,
that it's a picture, it's a type, it's a memorial.
And we find that he says,
you do show the Lord's death till he come.
The bread is always bread
and the grape juice is always grape juice.
There's nothing magical or anything that happens to it.
No, it stays in that very form that it is,
but it's a reminder of the body of my Savior
that was broken for me,
of his blood that was shed for me,
and can I tell you this evening
that we need reminders of this,
and that's why the Lord gave us the Lord's Supper.
And it's different than the Feast of Tabernacles.
It's different than what we're reading about in Psalm 81
as we study this particular psalm,
but I'm reminded this evening
that even as I study Psalm 81
and I see contextually for the children of Israel
that they're on an annual basis
to observe this Feast of Tabernacles
and that they're to be reminded
that it's a directive from God
and that he is the one that established,
that ordained this practice in Israel
to be a testimony so that they would remember something.
And what was it that they're remembering?
Their deliverance.
Because he says there,
as we looked in verse number six of Psalm 81,
he makes it very plain that it was him,
the Lord, that delivered.
I removed his shoulder from the burden.
His hands were delivered from the pots.
I know that as we study the nation of Israel
and we study their history,
that there are many times in which
they complain and they murmur.
They say, oh, that we're back in Egypt
and all of those things.
Anytime they face a difficulty,
it seems as if they're ready to get someone
to lead them back into Egypt.
I'm thankful that they never went back into Egypt.
And I'm thankful that for us this evening,
that once we're saved, we can never lose our salvation,
that we're secure in the hand of God.
But could I encourage you this evening,
we'll look at it a little bit more next Wednesday evening
as we get into verse number seven.
When you got saved and when I got saved,
there was no promise that it was gonna be
a perfect road with no problems.
There's a great difference between a saved person
and a lost person when it comes to problems.
And that is that we have someone to go with us
and someone that's able to deliver us.
And we'll see that as we study
into verse number seven next week.
But I wanna remind you this evening
that these people, the nation of Israel,
that often as we study them,
we can look at them and look at their faults,
but if we're not careful,
we can sometimes behave in the same manner.
We can sometimes behave in the same manner.
We sometimes can begin to complain and say it was easier,
it was better then and so on and so forth,
but no, we have to be reminded of what God has done for us.
We don't observe the Lord's Supper every single week
as often as you do it, this doing remembrance of me.
We don't observe the Lord's Supper every week,
but can I encourage you with something?
Every time you come into this church,
you see those words if you pay attention.
This do in remembrance.
of me. And though we don't observe the Lord's Supper every single week, when you come in
and you see those words, it ought to remind you of what Jesus did for you. Because without
Him, we'd just be going to a lost...we would be lost going to a Christless eternity on
our way to the lake of fire. And I'm thankful that God has given to us New Testament church.
He's given to us an ordinance. We focus specifically this evening in making the application to
the Lord's Supper, but He's given to us this ordinance that is a directive that God's given
to us the manner in which we're to observe it and He's provided with us or for us the
instruction and it reminds us of our deliverance. And so as the children of Israel would follow
the directive that God gave, they would be reminded of God's deliverance. And for us
this evening as we follow the directive that God has given to us, there's a purpose in
all of the directives that God gives, of all of the commandments that God gives and He's
causing us to be reminded, to be reminded. Every day of my life and every day of your
life we ought to praise God for our salvation. Some of you got saved younger. Some of you
got saved older. Some of you got saved out of a life of just all kinds of trouble and
difficulty and some were still sinners and needed to be saved but never experienced that
level of depravity that some others have. You heard the comments of the man that was
preaching on Sunday with regard to some of what he dealt with in his life and what God
saved him out of. Every one of us though needs to be remembered or be reminded that we've
been saved. Listen, you don't have to have had a past that's in deep sin to be thankful
for being saved. Because as it is written, there's none righteous, no not one. All have
sinned and come short of the glory of God. And every one of us, every one of us, every
day of our lives need to be thankful that God saved us. I don't deserve it but I'm a
recipient of His grace. And when you come to church, be reminded, this doing remembrance
of me. See, God wanted the nation of Israel to be reminded of what He did for them. And
I as a New Testament believer want to be reminded every day of what God did for me. I don't
want to wait to just one time a year. I know we have Thanksgiving, it's November. Sometimes
all of a sudden around November we get all about, well, we're supposed to be thankful
people. No, we're to be thankful all the time. In everything give thanks for this is
the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. Amen? We're to be a thankful people because
God is good all the time. And this is a great reminder for the children of Israel but we
make application for us tonight and we say thank you God. Thank you for your deliverance.
And thank you that you give us directives. And as we follow those directives, it leads
us directly back to being mindful of your deliverance. And what a blessing that is.
Let's pray. Father, we love you. We thank you for loving us. We thank you for the privilege
that you've given for us to gather this evening. We thank you for the freedom. We thank you
God for your word. And Lord, how thankful we are that we have a Bible. And Lord, we
can see the purpose here in the psalm with regard to the children of Israel and the feast
of tabernacles. But then as we seek to make application tonight, Lord, would you help
us to be mindful to remember the deliverance that we have. The fact that we've been saved
by your grace. Lord, help us to live every day with a level of gratitude and great appreciation
for what you've done for us. That we're heaven bound. So thankful that one day I'll see you
face to face. Lord, I pray that you would bless our time of prayer. We thank you for
the privilege. We thank you that you're God who hears and answers. I pray that you'd be
honored and glorified and we'll thank you for it in Christ's name we pray. Amen.